DIVD-2024-00013 PAN-OS (#732)
DIVD-NL/web-csirt: _cases/2024/DIVD-2024-00013.md

author: Stan Plasmeijer
lead: Stan Plasmeijer
researchers:
- Stan Plasmeijer
- Ralph Horn
- Wessel van der Goot
cves:
- CVE-2024-3400
product: 
- PAN-OS GlobalProtect
versions: 
- PAN-OS 10.2, PAN-OS 11.0, and PAN-OS 11.1 firewalls configured with GlobalProtect gateway or GlobalProtect portal (or both).
recommendation: "Upgrade to a PAN-OS version where the issue is fixed. The issue is fixed in PAN-OS 10.2.9-h1, PAN-OS 11.0.4-h1, PAN-OS 11.1.2-h3, and in all later PAN-OS versions."
patch_status: Released
status : Open
start: 2024-04-12
end: 
timeline:
- start: 2024-04-12
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts researching this vulnerability."
- start: 2024-04-13
  end:
  event: "DIVD found a way to fingerprint vulnerable devices"
- start: 2024-04-13
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts scanning the internet for vulnerable instances"
- start: 2024-04-14
  end:
  event: "Palo Alto Networks released new firmware to fix the issue"
- start: 2024-04-17
  end:
  event: "DIVD scanned a second time for finding vulnerable instances, which didn't update to the latest version yet"
- start: 2024-04-18
  end:
  event: "Case opened, first version of this casefile"

> #ips: 55000 +-

Reviewer: Laat deze even als comment nu op 0 staan. We willen mensen niet op ideeën brengen.

---
## Summary

> A command injection vulnerability has been discovered in GlobalProtect, allowing unauthenticated malicious actors to exploit it to execute arbitrary code on the system with root privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A command injection vulnerability has been discovered in the GlobalProtect of PAN-OS, allowing unauthenticated malicious actors to exploit it to execute arbitrary commands on the system with root privileges. pAN-OS is the operating system of Palo Alto Firewalls. 
```

Palo Alto Networks is aware of attacks exploiting this vulnerability.

## Recommendations

Palo Alto Networks recommends to upgrade to a version where the issue is fixed. Palo Alto has released the following versions and is planning to release the others by the ETA date:

PAN-OS 10.2:

> * 10.2.9-h1 (Released 4/14/24)

Reviewer: Schrijf data ajb als 14 Apr 2024, zodat we geen US/EU verwarring krijgen (in dit geval nvt, maar het helpt als standaard)

* 10.2.8-h3 (Released 4/15/24)
* 10.2.7-h8 (Released 4/15/24)
* 10.2.6-h3 (Released 4/16/24)
* 10.2.5-h6 (Released 4/16/24)
* 10.2.3-h13 (ETA: 4/18/24)
* 10.2.1-h2 (ETA: 4/18/24)
* 10.2.2-h5 (ETA: 4/18/24)
* 10.2.0-h3 (ETA: 4/18/24)
* 10.2.4-h16 (ETA: 4/19/24)

PAN-OS 11.0:
* 11.0.4-h1 (Released 4/14/24)
* 11.0.4-h2 (Released 4/17/24)
* 11.0.3-h10 (Released 4/16/24)
* 11.0.2-h4 (Released 4/16/24)
* 11.0.1-h4 (ETA: 4/18/24)
* 11.0.0-h3 (ETA: 4/18/24)

PAN-OS 11.1:
* 11.1.2-h3 (Released 4/14/24)
* 11.1.1-h1 (Released 4/16/24)
* 11.1.0-h3 (Released 4/16/24)

> ## Mitigation

Reviewer: Is uitzetten van GlobalProtect ook een potentiële mitigatie?
